# CS340-Client-Server-Development

Writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable means following OOP principles and making sure my code is both well commented and documented. By making sure I maintain documentation as I code and comment along the way, the code is easier for future parties to use and edit. Also by using modules for underlying functionality, those functions can then be used seperately for different programs. In project 2, I followed this idea by creating a module with CRUD functionality, which could then be called on my the dashboard. This means that the CRUD module can be used not only for different uses of AAC's database, but to access different databases entirely, since authentication is not hardcoded into the module.

Approaching the database and dashboard was a little different in this course than previous courses. The dashboard in particular was entirely new to me, as the closest I've ever gotten to web development like this was in updating the Spring framework for security issues, not programming any of the web elements myself. I found myself referencing multiple bits of documentation, the provided tutorial, and several implementations of similar dashboards to help me figure out how to do what I wanted with the dashboard. Looking over documentation is a necessary skill when working with modules and frameworks you didn't create yourself, even if they seem straightforward. This meant I was able to implement the elements actually how I wanted to without being limited by a limited understanding of the code.

Computer scientists create computer-based solutions to practical problems. Through this dashboard, I was able to help Grazioso Salvare filter for potential animals to train for different rescue scenarios, which means that more people can be saved through these animals that might not have even left the shelter. Automating these processes means that animals can be selected much faster, which will also help more animals have shorter stays in a shelter.
